DOCS/zhip-ai-styling.md, before:

Here’s a practical style guide you can hand to a designer and developer to “build and style and section out” a game like Melvor Idle, focused on UI/UX, structure, and visual style.

---

## 1. High-Level Concept & Tone

**Target experience:**
- Idle/incremental RPG with deep math, not action.
- Numbers, progress bars, and optimization are the core “gameplay”.
- UI should feel like a clean, modern desktop app more than a flashy action game.

**Visual tone:**
- “Quietly engaging”: not over-stimulating, but satisfying to watch fill up.
- Dark mode by default (Melvor has a dark theme with option for light).【turn0search1】
- Pixel-art or semi-pixel art is common in this space (Melvor uses simple pixel-style sprites).【turn0search6】

---

## 2. App Structure & Navigation

### 2.1 Main Sections (Top-Level)

Use a small, consistent set of top-level sections. For a Melvor-like idle RPG:

- **Play / Adventure**  
  Entry point for skilling and combat. Where you “do” things.
- **Skills**  
  Overview of all skills, their levels, XP bars, and quick actions.
- **Combat**  
  Enemy selection, current fight, and combat stats.
- **Bank / Inventory**  
  All items, equipment, and resource management.【turn0search3】
- **Shop / Market**  
  Buy/sell items and gear.
- **Progression / Mastery**  
  Long-term mastery systems, unlocks, and achievements.
- **Settings**  
  Options, notifications, save management, etc.【turn0search1】

On **mobile**, show this as:
- Bottom tab bar (5–6 items max), or
- Hamburger menu on very small screens.

On **desktop/web**, a left sidebar is fine.

---

### 2.2 Navigation Pattern

**Recommended pattern:**

- Persistent header (top) with:
  - Hamburger or back button on the left.
  - Current section title in the center.
  - Settings/notification icon on the right.
- Persistent bottom nav on mobile; top nav on desktop.

**Behavior:**
- Nav items are always visible; no deep nesting that hides sections.
- Opening a section replaces the main content area; nav stays put.

---

## 3. Layout Grid & Spacing

Use a simple, consistent grid:

- **Columns:**
  - Mobile: 4 columns.
  - Tablet: 8 columns.
  - Desktop: 12 columns.
- **Margins:**
  - Mobile: 16px.
  - Tablet: 24px.
  - Desktop: 32px.
- **Gutter (gap between columns):** 8–12px.

**Spacing scale (example):**
- xs: 4px
- sm: 8px
- md: 16px
- lg: 24px
- xl: 32px
- 2xl: 48px

Use these for:
- Section padding
- Card margins
- Form field spacing

---

## 4. Visual Style

### 4.1 Color Palette

Define a small palette and use it strictly:

- **Background (dark mode)**
  - App bg: `#0f111a`
  - Card bg: `#1b1e29`
- **Text**
  - Primary: `#e8e9ed`
  - Secondary: `#8b8fa3`
  - Disabled: `#5a5e6b`
- **Primary accent**
  - Main: `#4a90e2` (blue for main buttons, links)
  - Hover/Active: `#6aa3f5`
- **Positive / XP / Success**
  - Green: `#4caf50`
- **Warning / Gold**
  - Gold: `#ffca28`
- **Danger / Low HP**
  - Red: `#f44336`
- **Neutral / borders**
  - Border: `#2b2f3d`
  - Dividers: `#252837`

Apply:
- Background → screens
- Card → panels, modals, sections
- Accent → primary buttons, selected states
- Positive → XP gains, progress bars
- Gold → currency, important rewards

---

### 4.2 Typography

Use two font families:

- **UI font:** clean, readable sans-serif (e.g., Inter, Roboto, or similar).
- **Game font:** optional pixel/retro font for titles and labels (common in idle RPGs).【turn0search8】

**Type scale (example):**

- `xs`: 10–11px – tooltips, tiny labels.
- `sm`: 12–13px – secondary text.
- `base`: 14–16px – body copy.
- `lg`: 18–20px – section titles.
- `xl`: 22–24px – screen titles.
- `2xl`: 28–32px – big numbers (HP, XP, level).

Guidelines:
- Use **bold only for labels and headers**; avoid bold body copy.
- Avoid all-caps except for small labels (e.g., “XP”, “HP”).
- Ensure contrast meets WCAG AA (minimum 4.5:1 for normal text).

---

### 4.3 Iconography

- Simple, line-based icons for UI actions (settings, nav, etc.).
- Pixel-art or semi-pixel icons for items and skills, consistent with Melvor’s style.【turn0search6】
- Use a consistent stroke width (e.g., 2px).
- Provide two sizes:
  - 24px – inline with text.
  - 32–40px – large icon in lists or cards.

---

## 5. Component Library

### 5.1 Progress Bars

Progress bars are central to idle games. They should be:

- Horizontal.
- Filled from left to right.
- With a clear fill color and background.

**States:**
- Inactive: background color.
- Active: fill animates smoothly.
- Paused: dimmer fill.
- Complete: full bar with “completed” label or icon.

**Structure:**
- Label on the left (e.g., “XP to Level”).
- Current/Total on the right (e.g., “83 / 100”).
- Optional percentage below the bar.

---

### 5.2 Buttons

Define 3–4 button styles:

- **Primary** – main actions (Start Task, Equip)
  - Background: primary accent.
  - Text: white.
- **Secondary** – alternative actions (Sell, Cancel)
  - Background: card or border color.
  - Text: secondary text.
- **Text / Ghost** – low emphasis (links, small actions)
  - Background: transparent.
  - Text: primary accent.
- **Disabled**
  - Background: neutral dark.
  - Text: disabled text.

---

### 5.3 Cards / Panels

Use cards to group related data:

- Card header:
  - Title (bold, larger text).
  - Optional icon.
- Card body:
  - Key values (HP, XP, level).
  - Progress bars.
- Card footer:
  - Actions (Start, Pause, Equip).

Example: a **Skill Card**:
- Header: skill name + icon.
- Body: level, XP bar, mastery progress.
- Footer: “Train” button.

---

### 5.4 Lists & Tables

- Use simple two-line list items:
  - Title: item name.
  - Subtitle: quantity, level, or requirement.
- For complex data, use table-like layouts:
  - Column headers: “Item”, “Quantity”, “Action”.
  - Right-aligned numeric values.

---

### 5.5 Modals & Dialogs

- Use modals for:
  - Confirmation dialogs (e.g., “Abandon task?”).
  - Detailed item tooltips.
- Structure:
  - Header: title.
  - Body: content and inputs.
  - Footer: action buttons.

---

## 6. Screen-by-Screen Layout Patterns

Below is a structural view of how to section out the main screens.

```mermaid
mindmap
  root((Game UI Structure))
    Navigation
      Header
        Section title
        Settings
      Bottom tabs
        Play
        Skills
        Combat
        Bank
        Shop
        Settings
    Play Screen
      Active task panel
      Current skill info
      Quick stats
    Skills Screen
      Skill grid
      Skill detail view
      Mastery sub-panel
    Combat Screen
      Enemy selector
      Combat log
      Player & enemy stats
      Equipment & food
    Bank Screen
      Item grid
      Tabs and filters
      Equip/Use panel
    Shop Screen
      Buy/Sell toggle
      Category tabs
      Item list
    Settings Screen
      Gameplay options
      Notifications
      Save management
      Accessibility
```

### 6.1 Skills Screen

**Layout:**
- Left: list of skills (vertical or grid).
- Right (on wider screens): detail panel for selected skill.

**Skill List Item:**
- Icon.
- Name + level.
- XP progress bar.
- Optional “Train” button.

**Skill Detail Panel:**
- Large title and icon.
- Current level & XP.
- Progress bar to next level.
- Actions: “Train”, “Pause”, “Set task”.
- Mastery sub-section: list of items or activities with mastery progress.

---

### 6.2 Combat Screen

**Layout:**
- Top: enemy selector (list or dropdown).
- Middle: combat log (scrollable text).
- Bottom: player and enemy stats.

**Combat Stats Panel:**
- Two columns:
  - Player: HP, Attack, Strength, Defense.
  - Enemy: HP, Attack, Defense.
- Progress bars for HP.
- Auto-attack indicator and estimated time to kill.

**Enemy List:**
- Table or list with:
  - Name.
  - Combat level.
  - HP.
  - Difficulty indicator.
- Highlight the currently selected enemy.

---

### 6.3 Bank / Inventory Screen

Melvor’s bank is central; players spend a lot of time here.【turn0search3】

**Layout:**
- Top: tabs (All, Equipment, Resources, Food, etc.).
- Middle: item grid.
- Bottom (or right): item detail/equip panel.

**Item Grid:**
- Fixed-size cells.
- Each cell:
  - Item icon.
  - Quantity (small number in corner).
- Support for:
  - Tap to view details.
  - Long-press to quick-action.

**Item Detail Panel:**
- Name and icon.
- Description.
- Stats (if equipment).
- Actions: Equip, Use, Drop, Sell.

---

### 6.4 Shop Screen

**Layout:**
- Top: toggle (Buy / Sell).
- Below: category tabs (General, Equipment, Resources).
- Main area: item list with price and buy/sell buttons.

**Item Row:**
- Icon and name.
- Price.
- Quantity selector (if buying multiples).
- Buy/Sell button.

---

### 6.5 Settings Screen

Sections:

- **Gameplay:**
  - Auto-save frequency.
  - Offline progression settings.
  - Confirmation toggles (e.g., confirm before abandoning tasks).
- **Notifications:**
  - Notify on level-up.
  - Notify on task complete.
- **Save Management:**
  - Save, load, cloud sync.
- **Accessibility:**
  - Font size options.
  - High contrast mode.
  - Reduce motion (for animations).

---

## 7. Interaction & Feedback Patterns

### 7.1 Idle-Specific Feedback

- Always show:
  - Current task (e.g., “Mining Copper”).
  - Time remaining or progress.
  - Estimated rewards.
- Use progress bars for:
  - XP to next level.
  - Task completion.
  - Cooldowns.

### 7.2 Buttons & Actions

- For long actions:
  - “Start” / “Stop” button.
  - Clear visual state when active (e.g., filled border, different color).
- Provide immediate feedback:
  - On button press: dim for 50–100ms or animate scale.
  - On success: show small toast notification.

### 7.3 Notifications & Toasts

- Use toast messages for:
  - Level-ups.
  - Item drops.
  - Task completions.
- Keep them short and non-intrusive:
  - Auto-dismiss after 3–4 seconds.
  - Position at the bottom of the screen, above the nav bar.

---

## 8. Responsive Behavior

**Mobile:**
- Single-column layout.
- Bottom nav.
- Minimize horizontal scrolling; prefer vertical scrolling lists.

**Tablet:**
- Two-column layouts where appropriate (e.g., list on left, detail on right).
- Maintain same nav and component patterns.

**Desktop:**
- Left sidebar for nav.
- Wider content area for multi-column layouts.
- Support keyboard shortcuts (e.g., Esc to close modals).

---

## 9. Theming & Dark Mode

- Dark mode is the default for idle RPGs; Melvor provides a dark theme with a light option.【turn0search1】
- Use CSS variables or a theming system so you can later add:
  - Light theme.
  - Alternate color themes (e.g., “forest”, “arcane”).

Define tokens:
- `--bg-app`
- `--bg-card`
- `--text-primary`
- `--text-secondary`
- `--accent-primary`
- `--border-color`

---

## 10. Accessibility & Readability

- Ensure:
  - Text is resizable.
  - Touch targets are at least 44×44px on mobile.
  - Color is not the only indicator (use icons + labels).
  - Animations can be disabled.
- Provide:
  - High-contrast mode.
  - Option to increase font sizes.

---

## 11. Documentation & Naming

Create a simple living style guide that includes:

- Color palette with hex values.
- Typography scale and examples.
- Button and form states.
- Common component examples (card, list item, progress bar).
- Screen layout templates for each main section.

---

If you’d like, I can turn this into a more concrete design system document (with CSS variables and example component code) tailored to your engine (Unity, Godot, or web).

Commit message:

feat: Add Global Logger and Updates Modal

DOCS/zhip-ai-styling.md, after:

> [!WARNING]
> **ATTENTION:** Do NOT remove or delete existing texts, updates, docs, or anything else in this document. Only append, compact, or update.

Here’s a practical style guide you can hand to a designer and developer to “build and style and section out” a game like Melvor Idle, focused on UI/UX, structure, and visual style.

---

## 1. High-Level Concept & Tone

**Target experience:**
- Idle/incremental RPG with deep math, not action.
- Numbers, progress bars, and optimization are the core “gameplay”.
- UI should feel like a clean, modern desktop app more than a flashy action game.

**Visual tone:**
- “Quietly engaging”: not over-stimulating, but satisfying to watch fill up.
- Dark mode by default (Melvor has a dark theme with option for light).【turn0search1】
- Pixel-art or semi-pixel art is common in this space (Melvor uses simple pixel-style sprites).【turn0search6】

---

## 2. App Structure & Navigation

### 2.1 Main Sections (Top-Level)

Use a small, consistent set of top-level sections. For a Melvor-like idle RPG:

- **Play / Adventure**  
  Entry point for skilling and combat. Where you “do” things.
- **Skills**  
  Overview of all skills, their levels, XP bars, and quick actions.
- **Combat**  
  Enemy selection, current fight, and combat stats.
- **Bank / Inventory**  
  All items, equipment, and resource management.【turn0search3】
- **Shop / Market**  
  Buy/sell items and gear.
- **Progression / Mastery**  
  Long-term mastery systems, unlocks, and achievements.
- **Settings**  
  Options, notifications, save management, etc.【turn0search1】

On **mobile**, show this as:
- Bottom tab bar (5–6 items max), or
- Hamburger menu on very small screens.

On **desktop/web**, a left sidebar is fine.

---

### 2.2 Navigation Pattern

**Recommended pattern:**

- Persistent header (top) with:
  - Hamburger or back button on the left.
  - Current section title in the center.
  - Settings/notification icon on the right.
- Persistent bottom nav on mobile; top nav on desktop.

**Behavior:**
- Nav items are always visible; no deep nesting that hides sections.
- Opening a section replaces the main content area; nav stays put.

---

## 3. Layout Grid & Spacing

Use a simple, consistent grid:

- **Columns:**
  - Mobile: 4 columns.
  - Tablet: 8 columns.
  - Desktop: 12 columns.
- **Margins:**
  - Mobile: 16px.
  - Tablet: 24px.
  - Desktop: 32px.
- **Gutter (gap between columns):** 8–12px.

**Spacing scale (example):**
- xs: 4px
- sm: 8px
- md: 16px
- lg: 24px
- xl: 32px
- 2xl: 48px

Use these for:
- Section padding
- Card margins
- Form field spacing

---

## 4. Visual Style

### 4.1 Color Palette

Define a small palette and use it strictly:

- **Background (dark mode)**
  - App bg: `#0f111a`
  - Card bg: `#1b1e29`
- **Text**
  - Primary: `#e8e9ed`
  - Secondary: `#8b8fa3`
  - Disabled: `#5a5e6b`
- **Primary accent**
  - Main: `#4a90e2` (blue for main buttons, links)
  - Hover/Active: `#6aa3f5`
- **Positive / XP / Success**
  - Green: `#4caf50`
- **Warning / Gold**
  - Gold: `#ffca28`
- **Danger / Low HP**
  - Red: `#f44336`
- **Neutral / borders**
  - Border: `#2b2f3d`
  - Dividers: `#252837`

Apply:
- Background → screens
- Card → panels, modals, sections
- Accent → primary buttons, selected states
- Positive → XP gains, progress bars
- Gold → currency, important rewards

---

### 4.2 Typography

Use two font families:

- **UI font:** clean, readable sans-serif (e.g., Inter, Roboto, or similar).
- **Game font:** optional pixel/retro font for titles and labels (common in idle RPGs).【turn0search8】

**Type scale (example):**

- `xs`: 10–11px – tooltips, tiny labels.
- `sm`: 12–13px – secondary text.
- `base`: 14–16px – body copy.
- `lg`: 18–20px – section titles.
- `xl`: 22–24px – screen titles.
- `2xl`: 28–32px – big numbers (HP, XP, level).

Guidelines:
- Use **bold only for labels and headers**; avoid bold body copy.
- Avoid all-caps except for small labels (e.g., “XP”, “HP”).
- Ensure contrast meets WCAG AA (minimum 4.5:1 for normal text).

---

### 4.3 Iconography

- Simple, line-based icons for UI actions (settings, nav, etc.).
- Pixel-art or semi-pixel icons for items and skills, consistent with Melvor’s style.【turn0search6】
- Use a consistent stroke width (e.g., 2px).
- Provide two sizes:
  - 24px – inline with text.
  - 32–40px – large icon in lists or cards.

---

## 5. Component Library

### 5.1 Progress Bars

Progress bars are central to idle games. They should be:

- Horizontal.
- Filled from left to right.
- With a clear fill color and background.

**States:**
- Inactive: background color.
- Active: fill animates smoothly.
- Paused: dimmer fill.
- Complete: full bar with “completed” label or icon.

**Structure:**
- Label on the left (e.g., “XP to Level”).
- Current/Total on the right (e.g., “83 / 100”).
- Optional percentage below the bar.

---

### 5.2 Buttons

Define 3–4 button styles:

- **Primary** – main actions (Start Task, Equip)
  - Background: primary accent.
  - Text: white.
- **Secondary** – alternative actions (Sell, Cancel)
  - Background: card or border color.
  - Text: secondary text.
- **Text / Ghost** – low emphasis (links, small actions)
  - Background: transparent.
  - Text: primary accent.
- **Disabled**
  - Background: neutral dark.
  - Text: disabled text.

---

### 5.3 Cards / Panels

Use cards to group related data:

- Card header:
  - Title (bold, larger text).
  - Optional icon.
- Card body:
  - Key values (HP, XP, level).
  - Progress bars.
- Card footer:
  - Actions (Start, Pause, Equip).

Example: a **Skill Card**:
- Header: skill name + icon.
- Body: level, XP bar, mastery progress.
- Footer: “Train” button.

---

### 5.4 Lists & Tables

- Use simple two-line list items:
  - Title: item name.
  - Subtitle: quantity, level, or requirement.
- For complex data, use table-like layouts:
  - Column headers: “Item”, “Quantity”, “Action”.
  - Right-aligned numeric values.

---

### 5.5 Modals & Dialogs

- Use modals for:
  - Confirmation dialogs (e.g., “Abandon task?”).
  - Detailed item tooltips.
- Structure:
  - Header: title.
  - Body: content and inputs.
  - Footer: action buttons.

---

## 6. Screen-by-Screen Layout Patterns

Below is a structural view of how to section out the main screens.

```mermaid
mindmap
  root((Game UI Structure))
    Navigation
      Header
        Section title
        Settings
      Bottom tabs
        Play
        Skills
        Combat
        Bank
        Shop
        Settings
    Play Screen
      Active task panel
      Current skill info
      Quick stats
    Skills Screen
      Skill grid
      Skill detail view
      Mastery sub-panel
    Combat Screen
      Enemy selector
      Combat log
      Player & enemy stats
      Equipment & food
    Bank Screen
      Item grid
      Tabs and filters
      Equip/Use panel
    Shop Screen
      Buy/Sell toggle
      Category tabs
      Item list
    Settings Screen
      Gameplay options
      Notifications
      Save management
      Accessibility
```

### 6.1 Skills Screen

**Layout:**
- Left: list of skills (vertical or grid).
- Right (on wider screens): detail panel for selected skill.

**Skill List Item:**
- Icon.
- Name + level.
- XP progress bar.
- Optional “Train” button.

**Skill Detail Panel:**
- Large title and icon.
- Current level & XP.
- Progress bar to next level.
- Actions: “Train”, “Pause”, “Set task”.
- Mastery sub-section: list of items or activities with mastery progress.

---

### 6.2 Combat Screen

**Layout:**
- Top: enemy selector (list or dropdown).
- Middle: combat log (scrollable text).
- Bottom: player and enemy stats.

**Combat Stats Panel:**
- Two columns:
  - Player: HP, Attack, Strength, Defense.
  - Enemy: HP, Attack, Defense.
- Progress bars for HP.
- Auto-attack indicator and estimated time to kill.

**Enemy List:**
- Table or list with:
  - Name.
  - Combat level.
  - HP.
  - Difficulty indicator.
- Highlight the currently selected enemy.

---

### 6.3 Bank / Inventory Screen

Melvor’s bank is central; players spend a lot of time here.【turn0search3】

**Layout:**
- Top: tabs (All, Equipment, Resources, Food, etc.).
- Middle: item grid.
- Bottom (or right): item detail/equip panel.

**Item Grid:**
- Fixed-size cells.
- Each cell:
  - Item icon.
  - Quantity (small number in corner).
- Support for:
  - Tap to view details.
  - Long-press to quick-action.

**Item Detail Panel:**
- Name and icon.
- Description.
- Stats (if equipment).
- Actions: Equip, Use, Drop, Sell.

---

### 6.4 Shop Screen

**Layout:**
- Top: toggle (Buy / Sell).
- Below: category tabs (General, Equipment, Resources).
- Main area: item list with price and buy/sell buttons.

**Item Row:**
- Icon and name.
- Price.
- Quantity selector (if buying multiples).
- Buy/Sell button.

---

### 6.5 Settings Screen

Sections:

- **Gameplay:**
  - Auto-save frequency.
  - Offline progression settings.
  - Confirmation toggles (e.g., confirm before abandoning tasks).
- **Notifications:**
  - Notify on level-up.
  - Notify on task complete.
- **Save Management:**
  - Save, load, cloud sync.
- **Accessibility:**
  - Font size options.
  - High contrast mode.
  - Reduce motion (for animations).

---

## 7. Interaction & Feedback Patterns

### 7.1 Idle-Specific Feedback

- Always show:
  - Current task (e.g., “Mining Copper”).
  - Time remaining or progress.
  - Estimated rewards.
- Use progress bars for:
  - XP to next level.
  - Task completion.
  - Cooldowns.

### 7.2 Buttons & Actions

- For long actions:
  - “Start” / “Stop” button.
  - Clear visual state when active (e.g., filled border, different color).
- Provide immediate feedback:
  - On button press: dim for 50–100ms or animate scale.
  - On success: show small toast notification.

### 7.3 Notifications & Toasts

- Use toast messages for:
  - Level-ups.
  - Item drops.
  - Task completions.
- Keep them short and non-intrusive:
  - Auto-dismiss after 3–4 seconds.
  - Position at the bottom of the screen, above the nav bar.

---

## 8. Responsive Behavior

**Mobile:**
- Single-column layout.
- Bottom nav.
- Minimize horizontal scrolling; prefer vertical scrolling lists.

**Tablet:**
- Two-column layouts where appropriate (e.g., list on left, detail on right).
- Maintain same nav and component patterns.

**Desktop:**
- Left sidebar for nav.
- Wider content area for multi-column layouts.
- Support keyboard shortcuts (e.g., Esc to close modals).

---

## 9. Theming & Dark Mode

- Dark mode is the default for idle RPGs; Melvor provides a dark theme with a light option.【turn0search1】
- Use CSS variables or a theming system so you can later add:
  - Light theme.
  - Alternate color themes (e.g., “forest”, “arcane”).

Define tokens:
- `--bg-app`
- `--bg-card`
- `--text-primary`
- `--text-secondary`
- `--accent-primary`
- `--border-color`

---

## 10. Accessibility & Readability

- Ensure:
  - Text is resizable.
  - Touch targets are at least 44×44px on mobile.
  - Color is not the only indicator (use icons + labels).
  - Animations can be disabled.
- Provide:
  - High-contrast mode.
  - Option to increase font sizes.

---

## 11. Documentation & Naming

Create a simple living style guide that includes:

- Color palette with hex values.
- Typography scale and examples.
- Button and form states.
- Common component examples (card, list item, progress bar).
- Screen layout templates for each main section.

---

If you’d like, I can turn this into a more concrete design system document (with CSS variables and example component code) tailored to your engine (Unity, Godot, or web).
